# **Finger print automatic door lock system**<br/>

Now a day’s security is an issue of concern in our households and also in office, shops, etc.   Everyone has a fear of unauthorized person entering to their home or office without been seen. This paper explains various security issues in the existing home automation systems and proposes the use fingerprint based security algorithms to improve home security. Simulation of this project is done by using Arduino as a controller to which the devices are directly interfaced.
In the existing system, most doors are controlled by persons with the use of keys, password or pattern to open the door. The manual door can be fitted with locks but these locks can’t assure full security. The aim of this project is to help users for improvement of the door security. 
In the proposed system, we are introducing fingerprint module to access door lock. Here we have used MEMS (micro electro mechanical sensor), which is used to send message to user through GSM any theft happens. This signal is then sent to the microcontroller. In this project microcontroller Arduino acts as a master and the remaining acts as salves. Information from Arduino displayed on the LCD. The lock device is connected to the circuit; door will be opened or not based on the command given. If any unauthorized people try to open the door it gives buzzer indication. GSM is used the purpose of communication with the user by sending SMS with the picture of the theft taken by the camera if several tries takes place.

